The Joe Rogan experience.
Here's something we're probably going to disagree about. Uh,
recreational marijuana. You you're apparently not Dave.
I really thought we're going to do a whole show with Joe Rogan and you weren't
going to bring up marijuana.
Like, what are the chances.
You're not in favor of recreational marijuana?
No, I can, I could be convinced, but I'm not there.
Against you right now. Well, spark one up.
I, I don't like it. I just.
Don't like it. I liked, I like scotch. I like that too. We got that.
We've had scotch this whole time. Well, you gave me this amazing.
You gave me this amazing coffee. That's where.
The Hamilton superfood coffee. It's pretty good. Right? Maybe so coherent. Like,
yeah, I love it. The clarity. Good. Well, it's got tumeric.
It's it reduces inflammation. It gives you a yellow lips though. So.
I I'm definitely,
I'm definitely more open to just the federal legalization of medical marijuana
and all the benefits that come with that.
I think the science backs that up pretty well. Sure. The, um,
on the recreational side, I'm happy to leave that to the states. Okay.
And then there's the argument of, well,
the states are having trouble with some things, the banking laws, et cetera,
because the federal government does it may still makes it illegal. Th my, my,
my issue with recreational marijuana still is it's. And again,
this is not a strong opinion I have.
This is not a hill I'm dying on by any means. Um,
but if we're going to change it,
I want to understand what the point is and like what the benefits are of it
recreationally. I understand the benefits medically very well. Uh,
but I understand the,
the recreational benefits and I wanna see how this data plays out in places like
California and Colorado. You know,
I want to see if there's an increased use among young people. Cause there's,
there's, there's very good science that says,
if you use marijuana a lot under the age of 26,
you're going to have cognitive issues for the rest of your life,
along with a lot. Yes. But, and people compare those things.
But my counter isn't that my counter is simply this,
the alcohol issue is out of the bag. Like it just is, you know,
we're never going to put that back in. Um, and.
So they're going to put pot back in the bag.
Well, not necessarily. My point is this,
there's a normalization that occurs when you legalize something.
You're telling me. Okay. So let's say you make the age 21 or not.
What is it in California?
I think it's 21. Isn't it? So let's say, I want to think.
So let's say you make it 21.
What you've done though is you've normalized it for teenagers because you said,
well, yeah, it's 21, but it's legal. So there's nothing,
there's no issues with it. Okay.
That's what you're T I think that's what you're telling people.
And there's a lot of people who can just live their lives extremely productively
and smoke pot a lot. There's a lot of people who can't. Okay.
And there's lot of people don't.
Lazy. Well, yeah.
Let me help you.
Live your life. You just listen. Pot's not for everybody.
And I have a lot of friends who don't smoke pot, but pot is a tool,
just like a hammer. You could build a house with a hammer.
You can hit yourself in the Dick. If you're crazy, like scotch,
you could drink scotch recreationally.
You can have a couple of glasses with some friends and have a great
conversation. And it's a social lubricant and people enjoy. And I enjoy.
And that's why we got a bunch of bottles of it over there. Uh.
Look, but, but don't,
you have to drink way more scotch to get even close to the,
to the basically cognitive incoherence that you'd be able to just one bite of a
brownie.
You, you would.
But not me. I smoke pot all the time. I could smoke pot.
I could have smoked pot before this podcast and the exact same podcast I could
have had several hits. If I gave you several hits,
you'd be obliterated and you'd be so paranoid, freaking out.
You think the government's coming to get you,
and they're going to close down Congress. And oh my God, the Chinese listen.
Anyway, it's it's um,
a lot of it is based on our own ideas and perceptions.
And I had a lot of these misconceptions in my own head.
I didn't really S I smoked pot maybe six times or so.
Seven times before I was 30 years old. And then when I was 30,
I started hanging around with a guy who smoked a lot, my friend, Eddie Bravo.
We started smoking pot together. And I realized like, oh,
this is an incredible tool for creativity.
Like if you use it correctly and yeah, it makes you paranoid.
But I think a lot of what that paranoia is is you being acutely
aware of your vulnerability and your actual real place in the cosmos
and your real place in society and the real dangers of driving cars and the real
dangers of being in crowds of people that it's not, it's a weird,
uncomfortable feeling,
but ultimately you get through that and you're going to be okay. Yeah.
In a culture that I just don't really have a problem with what you're saying,
you know, like it's, I'm just, I'm not cultural, I guess, on a personal level.
I'm just not opposed to what you're saying at all. Uh,
from a policy level though, I just look at things differently.
Like when I extract myself from the personal situations I've had with pot,
and I look at it from a policy perspective, what personal situations,
ideas I've tried it, you know, and it's paranoid. I don't like it. I just,
I really don't freak out. I don't know. I'm not a freak out.
I'm not a freak out kind of person, but within your, like, uh, it just,
it's just the sensation that just in general, I just really didn't like it. Um,
I, I don't know.
Did you smoke too much? What, sorry.
I think there's something going on with my headphones.
That gloss over this. So,
but here's the problem with keeping an illegal criminal sell it? I mean,
this is the same problem we had during prohibition.
This is what propped up the mom, right? We all know this, and this is a,
this is the number one problem we have with the Mexican drug cartels.
And the number one problem is that there's a customer base in the United States,
and they're making billions and billions of dollars selling illegal drugs.
And what's the solution to that. I don't know. I mean, not look, I don't,
I have kids. I don't want heroin to be something you could buy at seven 11.
Yeah. I don't want you to be able to go to a store and buy meth, you know,
that gets.
Into a whole other conversation about all drugs, right? Yeah.
But those are the real dangerous.
Ones, pots, not that. And when you lie to kids and tell them that pots,
the real, real danger, and you shouldn't do it, then they start going, well,
maybe you're lying about heroin. Maybe you're lying about meth.
Maybe just square.
Maybe just some loser just wants to be stuck in a cubicle all day.
And you want me to be living like you, but it does.
Reduce. I mean, it does reduce productivity. I think more than alcohol.
Does, we can do highly dependent upon the person I get paranoid.
And I want to do more things. Cause I don't want to be a loser. Yeah.
That's what happens to me when I smoke pot.
I think it accentuates many aspects of people that are already lazy.
If you are already lazy and you have a problem with discipline, which I don't,
if you have a problem with discipline and you smoke pot. Yeah. Yeah.
You're going to just want to vege, outline the grass and stare at the clouds.
I want to get going. Yeah. I smoke pot and go to the gym. I mean,
I do it all the time. And again.
As a policy maker though, I have to look at the whole situation.
So I see people like you and you're like, yeah, it'd be fine. Why not? Um,
but I,
but I do have to take into account the entirety of the situation and ask myself,
well, what is the benefit of society, society doing this?
What is the people nicer? It.
Enhances the sense of community.
It makes people more aware of their surroundings. Kinder.
I mean, I don't know.
I think alcohol is much more of a social lubricant definitely makes it meaner
too. But I mean,
as far as getting along with people and going out and interacting with people,
it's different, it's different.
But definitely inhibits your inhibitions.
It lowers your inhibition. So it allows you to talk more freely with people,
definitely encourages more sex and more terrible decision making and driving
too. But the thing about marijuana.
Policy problem. Yeah. Because like how do you test for it? You know,
we have a very kind of clear standards on alcoholics. Just those again, again,
I'm not, I'm not just not dying on this hill. Um, I just,
I have questions and those questions are unanswered. I understand.
But this questions.
Oftentimes are coming from a place of propaganda.
Like people have this idea of what it is versus what it really is.
I don't know. I like, I have personal experience with this and I'm 35.
So like I've grown up around this my entire life. This isn't, so it's not,
well.
What again, did you do it right? But it's the same thing with alcohol.
You could have driven drunk and crashed your car and go, well, alcohol is bad.
Look, I drove my car into a tree and I go, well, Hey man,
I just had a couple of beers with my friends. We had a great old time.
We laughed it up and nobody got hurt.
The differences again, the way to,
to measure how much to alcohol too much alcohol is is, is well-defined.
And we also have just hundreds of years of experience with like,
as a culture with how to figure out alcohol.
And how to deal with,
we used to have thousands of years of experience of how to use cannabis,
but it was suppressed in the 1930s by William Randolph,
Hearst and Harry Anslinger.
And there's more of an eco economic decision than it was a public health
decision. Yeah. And I think I've heard your podcast on that. Interesting. Yeah.
There's many, many documentaries and books written on it,
but I think that the real problem is when you make drugs, illegal,
only Outlaws sell drugs. You prop up illegal enterprises.
It's a guy coming in next, next month or next week, rather John Norris, who,
uh, is, uh, a guy who works for the state.
He's one of those guys that asked to go around and find these illegal grow ops
on public land. And it's extremely dangerous. Yeah.
I mean, bottom, bottom line is my, my position. That's a state decision,
you know, it's a state decision.
Why wouldn't it be federally legal? If alcohol is federally illegal,
if we'd know that no one's dying from it. No one, I can't overdo.
It. I just want to see what the data comes out is from Colorado.
It's mixed right now, frankly.
I think we need a strong education program to let people know. First of all,
if you have a problem with reality, if you have schizophrenia in your family,
if your reality is already slippery, marijuana is not for you.
And I've personally seen people that have struggled that,
that do have an adverse reaction to marijuana and they go off the rails.
It does happen particularly with edibles edibles in particular,
to knock people for a loop,
but then there's other people that doesn't do that too. And I think we, the,
the way to study that is to have actual funding and make it legal where you
could, you could look at things across the board and figure out why. Yeah.
Yeah. I think, I think as far as the battles,
we should fight at the federal level. We've got to start with the medical side.
I think this, I think the science is clear and like, so, you know, let's start.
I mean, I, I just, I just.
The gateway right.
CBD is non-psychoactive and helps so many old people with arthritis and so many
people with anxiety. It's fantastic.
Just again,
another reason I'm a Republican is because I believe in somewhat slower
policymaking too. Like these,
these conversations have to play out in society and they w w we don't always
need to,
to solve the problem right away.
Like there's a reason for that things must happen. So, so I think,
I think the medical conversation is, is the one we should be fighting for.
I think the recreational side is, is a few steps beyond that.
And then we get to that and we'll have the we'll know more. And I,
and I think that's, that's, that's why generally,
when people ask me that I'm like, this is the,
the medical thing is the thing to be talking about. Right?
No, I appreciate that conservative perspective and the slow approach to things.
And I understand what you're saying, but what,
what bothers me more than anything is that American citizens are not doing any
harm to anyone could be criminals for something that's been used by human beings
for thousands of years and doesn't show any real problems.
I don't think young people should drink, but I drank when I was young. I mean,
I didn't drink a lot, but I did occasionally.
I don't think young people should smoke pot. I definitely don't encourage it.
As a matter of fact, I deeply discourage it and I tell people, look,
there's a reason.
One of the reasons why I enjoy it as I didn't start smoking really until I was
30. And, you know, I take time off all the time.
It's not an addictive substance. To me,
it's psychologically addictive to some people.
And there might be some evidence that a very,
very small percentage of people it's physically addictive,
but not like alcohol is not like a lot of the things that we can just buy
anywhere else.
Yeah. Those are all fair arguments.
And it's a good discussion to have, and we sort of disagree on it, but,
but only because I just think more due diligence needs to be done. It's not,
this is not, uh, something I'm vehemently opposed to.
Well, I think anything for young kids can be a real problem,
especially for young kids where their brain is still developing.
And they're trying to find their way through life and you give them something
that's severely distorts, reality, whatever it is. Um, I,
we had that same due diligence,
the way they prescribed psychotropic drugs to kids, because we don't, you know,
we should talk to parents discretion.
So many parents are putting their kids on Ritalin and Prozac and Adderall. And,
you know, you're making kids speed freaks.
As opposed to relying on like cognitive behavioral therapy,
which is proven to work much better because you're getting at the problem you're
questioning, you're questioning the untruths that you're telling yourself,
that's it, that's effectively what CBT is. Um, you know, it's good practice.
The kids have exorbitant.
Amounts of energy and you can call that hyperactive. Or you could just say,
well, that kid's got a great engine, got a lot of gas,
just figure out a way to get this kid engaged in what they, like.
I guarantee you'd take that kid, put them in front of a video game.
He doesn't have any problem focusing.
He has a problem with his classes with boring subjects, right.
And teachers that are uninterested.
And so many people are being labeled as being problems because.
Of that blame something else besides reality. And that's, that's, that's,
that's problematic. Um, and, uh,
it talked about looking into certain drugs. I mean, you know,
the opioid epidemic is an issue too, and that's a bipartisan issue. It's just,
again, it's not exactly clear. How do you solve this? Right.
How do you solve this?
I have a ton of experience with opioids because I've been injured so many times.
Did you ever have a problem getting off of them once you.
It's devastating? It's absolutely. It's absolutely devastating. And I didn't,
I never knew this was in 2012,
so I didn't know how devastating it would be. Cause I just stopped taking them.
I don't think I'm in pain anymore. I should probably just not take these.
And then I was in, in worse pain. I didn't know I was sick.
I didn't know what was wrong with me.
What was the experience like? Uh, it's.
Nash. You just, you can't move. You're sick. I don't know how to describe it.
You're just really sick. And is your body craving the pills? Yeah, but,
but I didn't know that. I think so. You're just feeling the sickness,
the sickness. It wasn't, I didn't, I didn't quite know where it was coming from.
Um, and then, you know, you tell your doctor and be like, oh yeah,
you got to wean off of that. We didn't tell you that. No,
you didn't tell me that. Um, it was very, I was 28 when this happened.
So I, my body can get over. You're.
Also 28 with a strong mind. Who's a seal.
Right? Yeah. But they're, but the age matters just like it matters with pot.
Just like it matters with addiction. Your you're when,
when teenagers are hooked on opioids,
when not one dealer gets into the system,
like you change that person's brain forever.
And they're always addicted to it really bad ways. And like,
it's different the way I'll always remember it.
Like it's ingrained in my brain too, but it's different because I was older.
Like if.
You got an injury today, would you be re would you be reluctant to.
No, no. I, I have faith in my ability to,
to just stacked responsibly. Like I, I, you know,
and so that requires a lot of things, but when you win and this is, this gets,
this is a little bit gets to the war on drugs, philosophy. Like,
do you just not do it because we're losing all the time.
And I actually disagree with that pretty strongly because th th yeah,
you might be, feel like you're losing all the time, but you are mitigating it.
And supply does create demand, especially with something like opioids.
If that one dealer gets into that one high school and,
and gets those kids addicted at one party, like those in those kids die 10,
12 years later, and I've watched this happen. I've been to the funerals. And,
uh, it's, it's devastating. And that supply, that,
that demand was created by supply. So like the, again, no, there's no,
there's never a black and white to anything.
And so when we say a war on drugs is stupid, or it's not stupid, like not,
it's complicated, it's complicated. And the opioid epidemic is I think,
a good indication of that.
What could be done to mitigate that other than sawing Florida off and selling it
to the Russians. Did Florida do Florida was the problem, you know,
the whole deal with the pill mills. Did you ever,
there's a great documentary called, uh,
the Oxy Oxycontin express detailed how they had pain management centers
in Florida set up right next to the doctor was next door to the
pharmacy that only sold opioids.
And they didn't realize it was a Florida and they didn't have a database.
They didn't have a database. So there was no computer database. So you could,
if you were a doctor, I could go to you. I could get my opioids.
Then I'd go over Jamie. He's a doctor.
He could hook me up and then I'd go down the street and get more.
And then when people started selling them,
and there was an express from Florida,
went up into Kentucky and Ohio and all these different states that were having
giant problems. And they found out the pills were all coming from this one area.
It was a Vanguard documentary.
And in that stuff's been slammed down pretty hard ever since.
And so in the pendulum has swung a little too far.
Cause now pain patients are having trouble getting the opioids. They want, like,
here's two pills for your surgery. And you're like, really? Right. Um,
so some people legitimately need this stuff.
And so we've got to find that correct balance. And again,
you've always got to know why there's a problem. Um,
and as a general policy approach,
we should always really question why the problem exists in the first place and,
and, and what the characteristics of that problem are. Uh,
so a lot of people are dying. Not necessarily,
they're not like they're not overdosing on Oxycontin.
They're overdosing from illegal forms of it or heroin that is laced with
fentanyl. Uh, so like, how do you tackle that? Well, fennel,
I was coming from the Southern border. That's where it's coming from. Um,
you know, we can talk about immigration too, but little, it happens a lot is,
you know,
those massive waves of immigrants who were turning themselves into border
patrol, they're allowed to cross because the drug cartels say they can cross,
okay. That's why they come across an organized groups.
And then they turned themselves into border patrol and they,
and they claim asylum.
They always bring a kid with them so that they know they can stay.
But what's also happening is just down the road.
The drug cartels are moving the fentanyl and other,
or other drugs across most of the bulky drugs, mostly like marijuana,
things like that. Fentanyl is so small. They can just bring it through trucks,
through ports of entry. So the,
and so we need sensors to actually detect that. And we're getting those,
getting those put in place more. Um,
and we need to secure the border because this is where it's coming from.
And we need to deal with where it's coming from south of the border,
which is China.
And so the administration actually did that and we got the Chinese to say,
at least that they'll do it. You never know how much they're enforcing that. So.